1. Issues with traditional file based system:
- absence of indexing, super slow, high processing time, redundancy, inconsistency, unorganised data.

2. Advantages of DBMS and explaination:
- Structured Query Language used for accessing and manipulating data in dB(MySQL is a relational database management system)
  CRUD ops on db , tables, columns and records.
- A database schema is a logical representation of data that shows how the data in a database should be stored logically. 
  It shows how the data is organized and the relationship between the tables.
  Database schema contains table, field, views and relation between different keys like primary key, foreign key.
- A Database is defined as a structured form of data storage in a computer or a collection of data in an organized manner and can be accessed in various ways. 
  It is also the collection of schemas, tables, queries, views, etc. Databases help us with easily storing, accessing, and manipulating data held on a computer.
  The Database Management System allows a user to interact with the database.
  SQL provides various commands to interact with DB.
- DBMS stands for Database Management System. It is a software program that primarily functions as an interface between the database and the end-user. 
  It provides us the power such as managing the data, the database engine, and the database schema to facilitate the organization and manipulation of 
  data using a simple query in almost no time.

o	Hierarchical databases (DBMS)
o	Network databases (IDMS)
o	Relational databases (RDBMS
o	Object-oriented databases
o	Document databases (Document DB)
o	Graph databases
o	ER model databases
o	NoSQL databases
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System. It is a database management system based on a relational model. 
It facilitates you to manipulate the data stored in the tables by using relational operators. RDBMS stores the data into the collection of tables
and links those tables using the relational operators easily whenever required.

- Data sharing, integrity(accuracy, consistency) constraints ensures organised and refined data, controlling redundancy, 
  provides backup and recovery failure, data security(authentication and encryption), 
  independence of data(can change structure of data without changing structure of application program).

3. Different languages of DBMS:
a. Data Definition Language (DDL): provides the ability to define, create and modify database objects such as tables, views, indexes, and users. E.g., CREATE, ALTER, DROP, TRUNCATE, RENAME, etc.
    CREATE -> CREATE TABLE table_name (column1 data_type, column2 data_type, ...);
    DROP -> DROP TABLE table_name;
    ALTER -> ALTER TABLE table_name ADD COLUMN column_name data_type;
    TRUNCATE -> TRUNCATE TABLE table_name;
    COMMENT -> COMMENT 'comment_text' ON TABLE table_name;  // Add comments to the data dictionary.
 
b. Data Modification Language (DML): used to query, and perform CRUD operations on row-level data from database tables. E.g., UPDATE, INSERT, DELETE, etc.
    INSERT -> INSERT INTO table_name (column1, column2, ...) VALUES (value1, value2, ...);
    UPDATE -> UPDATE table_name SET column1 = value1, column2 = value2 WHERE condition;
    DELETE -> DELETE FROM table_name WHERE condition;
    LOCK -> LOCK TABLE table_name IN lock_mode;
    CALL -> CALL procedure_name(arguments);

c. Data Query Language (DQL): used to perform queries on data of DB. Gets data based on query and it’s conditions.
    SELECT -> SELECT column1, column2, ...FROM table_name<br>WHERE condition;

d. Data Control Language (DCL): deal with the user permissions and controls of the DB. E.g., GRANT and REVOKE.
    GRANT -> GRANT privilege_type [(column_list)] ON [object_type] object_name TO user [WITH GRANT OPTION];
    REVOKE -> REVOKE [GRANT OPTION FOR] privilege_type [(column_list)] ON [object_type] object_name FROM user [CASCADE];
    // Removes previously granted privileges from a user account

e. Transaction Control Language (TCL): deal with the transaction of the database. E.g., COMMIT(permanently save changes), ROLLBACK, and SAVEPOINT.
  COMMIT -> COMMIT;  // Saves all changes made during the transaction.
  ROLLBACK -> ROLLBACK; // Undoes all changes made during the transaction.
  SAVEPOINT -> SAVEPOINT savepoint_name; // used to rollback certain operations and not the entire transaction, save point saves the transaction.

4. ACID properties:
A database transaction having these properties is known as ACID transaction:
a. Atomicity: All the changes to data must be performed successfully or not at all.
b. Consistency: integrity constraints must be maintained so that Data will be consistent before and after a transaction.
c. Isolation: No other process can change the data while the transaction is running.
d. Durability: The changes made by a transaction must persist. Data is not lost in cases of a system failure or restart.

5. What is meant by an entity-relationship (E-R) model? Explain the terms Entity, Entity Type, and Entity Set in DBMS.
- An Entity-Relationship model is a diagrammatic approach to design DB, where real world objects are represented as entities 
  and relationships between them are mentioned.
- Entity: is a real-world object that can be uniquely identified by its attributes.
  An entity can be of two types :
  Tangible Entity : that exist in the real world physically. Example: Person, car, etc.
  Intangible Entity : that exist only logically and have no physical existence. Example: Bank Account, etc.
- Entity Type: Collection of entities with same attributes. 1 or more related tables in a database represent an entity type.
- Entity Set: Set of all the entities present in a specific entity type in a database.
Eg: A table Student has records of Ram, Sham and Kisam with attributes name, class, marks.
    So collection of entities Ram(E1) and Sham(E2) of the entity type Student forms an Entity Set.
Entities -> Rectangle
Relation -> Diamond
Attributes -> Oval

6. What is Normalization and Denormalization? 
* Normalization: Technique to minimize the redundancy and anomalies by organizing the data into multiple tables. 
- Removes row level duplicacy, by introducing unique key constraint.
- Column level duplicacy can lead to insertion anomaly, deletion anomaly and updation anomaly.
Observe below table.

SID	 Sname	 Cid	 Cname	 FID	  Fname	Salary
1	    RAM	    C1	  DBMS	  F1	  John	30000
2	    Ravi	  C2	  JAVA	  F2	  Bob	  40000
3	    Nitin	  C1	  DBMS	  F1	  John	30000
4	    Amrit	  C1	  DBMS	  F1	  John	30000

Insertion anomaly: Consider inserting a new course for which no student has enrolled, this cannot be done as SID has to be non-null.
Deletion anomaly: Consider deleting SID 2 info, which will ultimately delete all the info of course C2.
Updation anomaly: Consider updating salary of F1 faculty, you'll need to update 3 records which is unnecessary. 
- So normalization means dividing the above table into 3 different tables, Student, Course and Faculty.
- Normalization is putting data in multiple tables to avoid redundancy.

Denormalization: combines data and organizes into a single table.
JOIN operation allows us to create a denormalized form of the data by reversing the normalization. 
Benefits: 
1. Faster data read operations.
2. High data availability.
3. Data is fetched from single location.
Challenges: 
1. Redundant data.
2. Wastage of memory.
3. Data inconsistency.

7. Explain different types of Normalization forms in a DBMS.

8. Explain different types of relationships amongst tables in a DBMS.
  1. One to One Relationship
  2. One to Many Relationship
  3. Many to Many Relationship
  4. Self Referencing Relationship 

9. Explain different levels of data abstraction in a DBMS.
    
10. What is Data Warehousing?
  
11. Explain the difference between a 2-tier and 3-tier architecture in a DBMS.

12. Explain different types of keys in a database. 
-> mainly 7 types of keys
* Candidate Key : The minimal set of attributes that can uniquely identify a tuple
* Super Key : A set of one or more columns that can uniquely identify a row in a table (Eg: {EmpID}, {Email}, {Phone}, {SSN}, {EmpID, Email}, etc)
* Primary Key : There can be more than one candidate key in relation out of which one can be chosen as the primary key and cannot be null.
* Unique Key : A unique key is a set of one or more than one fields/columns of a table that uniquely identify a record in a database table and can be null.
* Alternate Key : The candidate key other than the primary key is called an alternate key .
* Foreign Key : A FOREIGN KEY is a field (or collection of fields) in one table, that refers to the PRIMARY KEY in another table. 
                The table with the foreign key is called the child table, and the table with the primary key is called the referenced or parent table.
* Composite Key : To uniquely identify rows of a table, a combination of two or more columns/attributes can be used.

E.g.:-
EmpID	   Email	              Phone        SSN        Name
101	  alice@example.com	    1234567890	123-45-6789	  Alice
102  	bob@example.com	      9876543210	987-65-4321	  Bob
103	  charlie@example.com	  5556667777	555-66-7777	  Charlie


13. What integrity rules exist in the DBMS?
* Entity Integrity:- Primary key can never be NULL.
* Referential Integrity:- The values of the foreign key in a tuple of relation R1 can either take the values of the primary key for some tuple in relation R2(where FK is PK), 
                         or can take NULL values, but can’t be empty.
* Domain constraint :- Domain constraints can be defined as the definition of a valid set of values for an attribute.
* Key Constraints :- ensures uniqueness of entity within entity set.
* Not-Null Constraints :- It specifies that within a tuple, attributes overs which not-null constraint is specified must not contain any null value.
* Primary Key Constraints :- It states that the primary key attributes are required to be unique and not null. 



Data consistency means that the data is the same across all locations, while data integrity means that the data is accurate, complete, and reliable.


14. Explain the difference between intension and extension in a database.

15. 

16. What is the difference between having and where clause? 
- WHERE clause cannot be used with aggregate functions(MIN(), MAX(), AVG(), SUM(), COUNT()), but the HAVING clause can.
- we use WHERE prior to GROUP BY and HAVING after GROUP BY. 
- Eg:
  SELECT Employees.LastName, COUNT(Orders.OrderID) AS NumberOfOrders
  FROM Orders
  INNER JOIN Employees ON Orders.EmployeeID = Employees.EmployeeID
  WHERE LastName = 'Davolio' OR LastName = 'Fuller'
  GROUP BY LastName
  HAVING COUNT(Orders.OrderID) > 25;

17. What is the difference between a database schema and a database state?
State: The collection of information stored in a database at a particular instance.
Schema: The overall design of the database.

18. What is Identity? 
Identity/GUID(globally unique identifier) -> automatically generates numeric values.
A start and increment value can be set for Identity.
Value of GUID cannot be controlled.
These do not need to be indexed. 

19. What is a view in SQL? How to create a view?
- A view is a virtual table based on the result-set of an SQL statement. We can create it using CREATE VIEW syntax. 
- Views can represent a subset of the data contained in a table.
- a view can limit the degree of exposure of the underlying tables
Eg: 
CREATE VIEW view_name AS
SELECT column_name(s)
FROM table_name
WHERE condition

20. What is a Trigger? 
A Trigger is a code associated with insert, update or delete operations. 
The code is executed automatically whenever the associated query is executed on a table.

21. What is indexing?
- technique used to optimize the speed and efficiency of data retrieval operations.
- Implemented using B-tree or hash table data structures that stores sorted column values with pointers to the corresponding rows.
- Primary Index: Automatically created for a primary key column.
- Secondary Index: Additional indexes can be created on other columns to optimize specific queries.
- Trade-Off: While indexes improve read performance, they can slow down write operations (like INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE) 
  because the index itself needs to be updated.

22. What are clustered and non-clustered Indexes? 

23. What is CLAUSE in SQL?

24. What is a Live Lock?

25. What is QBE? 

26. Why are cursors necessary in embedded SQL? 

27. 

28. 

29.
