https://www.tutorialspoint.com/difference-between-linux-and-windows
https://www.javatpoint.com/monolithic-structure-of-operating-system

1.	LINUX is open source OS built upon linux kernel which is a brain of OS and it manages how computer interacts with it’s h/w and resources.
2.	The Linux operating system is a set of programs which acts as a link between the computer and the end user.
3.	The computer programs that allocate the system resources and coordinate all the details of the computer's internals is called the Operating System 
    or the Kernelmemory management, task scheduling and file management.
4.	Users communicate with the Kernel through a program known as the shell. The shell is a command line interpreter; it translates commands entered by 
    the user and converts them into a language that is understood by the kernel.
5.	h/w-->kernel-->shell-->Application programs
6.	Kernel − The kernel is the heart of the Linux operating system. It interacts with the hardware and most of the tasks like memory management, 
    task scheduling and file management.
7.	Shell − The shell is the utility that processes your requests. When you type in a command at your terminal, the shell interprets the command
    and calls the program that you want. The shell uses standard syntax for all commands. C Shell, Bourne Shell and Korn Shell are the most famous 
    shells which are available with most of the Unix variants.

Linux Commands	Functions :- 

1. ls command in Linux
Displays information about files in the current directory.

2. pwd command in Linux
Displays the current working directory.

3. mkdir command in Linux
Creates a directory.

4. cd command in Linux
To navigate between different folders.

5. rmdir command in Linux
Removes empty directories from the directory lists.

6. cp command in Linux
Copy files from one directory to another.

7. mv command in Linux
Rename and Replace the files

8. rm command in Linux
Delete files

9. uname command in Linux
Command to get basic information about the OS

10. locate command in Linux
Find a file in the database.

11. touch command in Linux
Create empty files

12. ln command in Linux
Create shortcuts to other files

13. cat command in Linux
Display file contents on terminal

14. clear command in Linux
Clear terminal 

15. ps command in Linux
Display the processes in terminal

16. man command in Linux
Access manual for all Linux commands

17. grep command in Linux
Search for a specific string in an output

18. echo command in Linux
Display active processes on the terminal

19. wget command in Linux
download files from the internet.

20. whoami command in Linux
Create or update passwords for existing users

21. sort command in Linux
sort the file content

22. cal command in Linux
View Calendar in terminal

23. whereis command in Linux
View the exact location of any command typed after this command

24. df command in Linux
Check the details of the file system

25. wc command in Linux
Check the lines, word count, and characters in a file using different options
